face-to-face one-on-one you're talking
to me and I'm talking to you
I think it's ridiculous and absurd
genuinely ridiculous and genuinely
observed for us to pretend that we're
going to motivate people to
fundamentally change their lives you
know in terms of diet lifestyle and
everything else fundamentally change
their ethics and be motivated to work to
save the planet on the basis of a 15%
difference in their risk of getting
cancer 15% does not justify the hype
that people like Mike the vegan are
engaged in it does not justify frankly
the dishonest tactics of many
plant-based and health focused activists
who are promoting the vegan cost
[Music]
about us yen okay let's start with the
facts first if you're vegan or if you're
non vegan and you just happen to have
seen a handful of videos on YouTube
about this topic you probably have the
impression that veganism has a dramatic
impact on rates of cancer on your
chances of having cancer or even your
ability to prevent or reverse cancer if
you're at some stage of having cancer
that claimed that being vegan cured her
of cancer
sadly though she has died from cancer
now she was known for posting viral
videos of how she was able to cure her
stage 4 diagnosis through faith in God
and following a strict diet of raw
vegetables but here's the thing if God
does exist he clearly looked at what she
was doing and went like Cirque because
it didn't work in an interview with babe
Liz Johnson who made videos with her
aunt Mari doubled down on her beliefs
say she completely stood by what she
posted I'm sure she did now listen Mari
who videos amassed hundreds of thousands
of years regularly posted on how Mari
had recovered from terminal diagnosis or
her Christian faith and had discovered
and her discovery of lemon and ginger
juice they told the story to know in
certain terms that they could do the
same uploading how-to videos like stage
for cancer healed by juicing in raw
vegan diet part one nearly three hundred
thousand views
part two at over four hundred thousand
now you're selling lies to people at
this point you are you're just selling
lies to people you have add video titled
stage for cancer healed I've had friends
who've you know had family members died
of stage four cancer you don't it's rare
to come back from that nothing it's
impossible it's rare to come back from
that and they sit there and be like I
did that through Christian faith and
juicing and a raw vegan diet is just so
angers me you may have seen videos with
exciting and jarring headlines like
quote vegan blood kills cancer close
quote from Mike Mike the vegan here that
might really give you the impression
that a vegan diet is a miracle cure for
cancer or even that the blood of a vegan
person itself is some kind of potion
that will prevent cancer something he
jokes about in a
hearted way within the first few minutes
of that video but it's it's really not a
laughing matter and you see a lot of
people trying to politically package
this message to take these little bits
and pieces little scientific factoids
little pseudo scientific factoids and
put them into a political program that's
going to motivate people to get up in
the morning and not just have soy milk
on their breakfast cereal instead of cow
milk but to be highly motivated and
effective in working for the future of
the vegan movement and here's here's a
fact right up front as to why that's not
gonna work
quote vegan diet conferred a significant
reduced risk of incidence from total
cancer 15% 1/5 15% this is a 2017
meta-analysis you know peer-reviewed etc
etc and it's working from you know a
variety of peer-reviewed sources being
surveyed and weighed for their quality
their sample size a comparatively
examined for the outcomes of their
research and the finding is that a vegan
diet will reduce your risk of the
incidence of cancer by only 15% now when
you scale it up if you diagnosed social
policy from the government's perspective
if you ask someone who was currently in
power in the government of Canada the
government United States any large
country hey wouldn't it be fantastic if
we could reduce the number of cancer
cases coming in by 15% they would say
yeah and they could probably very
rapidly get out their calculator and
come up with some rough estimates of how
many millions of dollars per year that
might save the medical system when you
scale it up to a population of millions
of people a 15 percent lower risk of
cancer really is significant but
face-to-face one-on-one you're talking
to me and I'm talking to you
I think it's ridiculous and absurd
genuinely ridiculous and genuinely
observed for us to pretend that we're
gonna motivate people to fundamentally
change their lives you know in terms of
diet lifestyle and everything else
fundamentally change their ethics and be
motivated to work to save the planet on
the basis of a 15 percent difference in
their risk of getting cancer now I say
this as somebody this is with no
boasting with no false humility or
whatever I had to make a really hard
decision at one point in my life my
daughter was a newborn baby and my wife
and I had just moved to Taiwan so the
wife I'm referring to is my ex-wife not
my current wife moved to Taiwan with a
newborn baby in our arms and we'd plan
to move to one of the big cities of
Taiwan one of the big cities that on the
coast and when we got there the air
pollution was so bad and you know I
started googling it I started getting
scientific sources on exactly how bad
the air pollution was but apart from
that it was astounding to us that even
if you just took a taxi from one part of
the city to another within downtown the
traffic was also very bad but while we
were in the taxi we ourselves would feel
the impact of inhaling so much thick
smoke
remember this is Taiwan in the part of
town one we were in they have a steel
industry apart of the fact that they
have pollution drifting across the ocean
from the toy industry and coal burning
power plants that are in southeastern
China the industrial heartland of China
Taiwan's own industries of tremendous
heavy industry the manufacturer
computers bicycles but just steel itself
steel is no joke it's one of the
heaviest industries of them all and I
realize just within a couple of days of
being there that ethically I could not
raise my newborn daughter like not even
for one year in a place that polluted
and at great cost and great
inconvenience and with great sorrow and
great misery we had to pack up our few
possessions and that's fundamentally the
reason why we moved from the big city of
Taiwan to a small not at all famous
city on the southeast corner called tae
dong and it's beautiful it's beautiful
in its way but that is probably the only
part of Taiwan where you can say that
the air is clean tae dong and memorably
a small island called Orchid Island when
you get out there in the southeast
corner then you're actually getting into
some some breathable air and that
decision feels it feels very different
when you're not making that decision
based on your own risk of getting cancer
but somebody else's risk of getting
cancer in this case a newborn baby you
know in this case my own daughter that
of course I loved and worried about and
naturally we tend to worry about our
kids more than with Jorge about
ourselves partly due to their
helplessness and the responsibility
that's incumbent on us alright so yes
now you know nobody ever gave me a
percentage rate on it nobody gave me a
precise percentage of what impact on my
daughter's growth and health and
development or what percentage impact it
would have on her risk of getting cancer
of living on the west coast of Taiwan in
a big city versus the east coast of
Taiwan in a small town on the basis of
obviously of imperfect but very real
scientific evidence I had to pack up and
make that decision and move and you know
in some ways of course I can say I'd
make that decision again now you know
the bad news is that was that led to the
breakup of my marriage that was the last
thing that happened you know and then my
ex-wife and I split up
she moved back to France and the drama
of our divorce you know has been ongoing
ever since so in some ways you know
that's harmful for my daughter and in
some ways obviously I was I was really
struggling to make the best decision I
possibly could in that context and
millions and millions of people are
making those decisions all over the
world I've seen statistics on the extent
to which you increase your risk of
cancer by directly pumping your own
gasoline into your car when you fill up
your your your gas tank at the car as
opposed to having someone else hold the
the dispenser the nozzle and put the
gasoline into your car I mean this is
especially awful because when you think
about it like well either you're getting
the exposure to the hydrocarbons you're
getting the exposure to that pollution
or somebody else is
right next to you so you don't feel
morally good about paying someone else
to do that job knowing that you're
increasing their rate of cancer but guys
if you search your heart of hearts I
think you know 15% is as this says in
its you know peer-reviewed broken
English this is a significant reduced
risk it doesn't say significantly
reduced because it they want to
emphasize the statistical significance
this is statistically significant it's
15% 15% does not justify the hype that
people like Mike the vegan are engaged
in it does not justify frankly the
dishonest tactics of many plant-based
and health focused activists who are
promoting if he can cause I gotta tell
you something else about Mike the vegan
I can throw in some screenshots of this
I got in touch them directly after my
last video criticizing him about brain
damage the fact that he made a long and
I think I can say influential video
talking about the use of marijuana and
in my opinion he intentionally and
dishonestly did not disclose the impacts
of marijuana use on the health of your
brain he talked about health in many
other respects your lungs and your blood
in your heart but in the case of a drug
that is proven a repeat scientifically
proven to cause brain damage
through MRI scans he was withholding us
from his audience and he did write back
to me I'm not impressed with his reply
he seems to take absolutely no
responsibility for publishing
disinformation that will harm people and
that's what it is all right I was a
Buddhist for I think about 10 years of
my life I had different reasons for
leaving the religion and starting to
describe myself as an expert but when
people asked him about it why did I quit
why did I switch from being a
self-identifying as a Buddhist to
identifying as an historical nihilist I
normally do start the conversation by
saying look fundamentally I do not want
to be
a member of a religion that is built on
a lie and I can say the same thing about
veganism we can come up with all kinds
of tactics that might be effective in
motivating people I do not want to be
part of a movement that is based on a
lie I'm not gonna tell lies about cancer
I'm not going to tell lies about public
protests I'm not going to tell lies
about any of it
win or lose I'm gonna do this on the
level all right
I almost never say this but guys if you
want to you can hit the subscribe button
you can come back to this channel love
it or hate it this is the channel that's
gonna give it to you raw baddest Yin